# how to use

Once running, see `http://localhost:30001/docs` for API documentation.

# run natively

Run `poetry install` first if you have not already done so.

The default settings in `server.utils.Settings` should be ok for native use. Override any you want in a `server/.env` file or by setting them as environment variables in the shells where the app and workers are running.

## start kafka and redis

```bash
cd ..
docker-compose -f docker-compose.native.yml up
```

## start app

```bash
poetry run uvicorn app:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 30001
```

## start celery workers

```bash
cd tasks/
poetry run celery -A process_file worker --loglevel=info
```

# run in Docker


Edit the env variables in `docker-compose.yml` if needed - the defaults should be ok. There should be differences from the defaults in `server.utils.Settings` for native use.

```bash
# from repo root
docker-compose up
```

# run client (unused, for dev convenience only)

```bash
cd ui/
yarn start
```

## hosted instances

settings are configured here: https://github.com/HumanSignal/infra/blob/master/base/charts/humansignal/adala/values.yaml

The only significant difference from local as of now is that kafka topic autocreation is enabled as a backup.

# development


## testing

Server pytests in `test/test_server.py` rely on a running server (kafka, redis, and celery, but not app) behind the `use_server` mark, and a real openai/azure key available in the `OPENAI_API_KEY`/`AZURE_API_KEY` env var behind the `use_openai`/`use_azure` mark. These tests are not run by default. To run them, use:
```bash
poetry run pytest -m use_server -m use_openai -m use_azure
```

## rebuild on code change

```bash
# from repo root
docker-compose up --build
# if dependencies have changed, or to get to a clean state:
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose up
```

## edit client on API change

```bash
./api_codegen.sh
export SERVER=$(pwd)
cd ui/
yarn codegen
```
now edit `src/adala.tsx` manually given the autogenerated changes in `src/_api/`

## change the log level

If not set, the logging level will default to "INFO".

When doing native dev, you can set the `ADALA_LOG_LEVEL` env var to "INFO", "DEBUG", etc. For docker, change the value of the `ADALA_LOG_LEVEL` env var in `docker-compose.yml` (for both `app` and `worker`).
