server/README.md, before:

# how to use

Once running, see `http://localhost:30001/docs` for API documentation.

# run natively

Run `poetry install` first if you have not already done so.

## start kafka and redis

```bash
cd ..
docker-compose -f docker-compose.native.yml up
```

## start app

```bash
# set env vars
cp .env.example .env
# set AWS creds (only if S3 access needed)
eval "$(aws configure export-credentials --profile <YOUR_PROFILE> --format env)"
# start app
poetry run uvicorn app:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 30001
```

## start celery workers

```bash
# set AWS creds (only if S3 access needed)
eval "$(aws configure export-credentials --profile <YOUR_PROFILE> --format env)"
# start celery workers
cd tasks/
poetry run celery -A process_file worker --loglevel=info
```

# run in Docker

```bash
# set AWS creds (only if S3 access needed)
eval "$(aws configure export-credentials --profile <YOUR_PROFILE> --format env)"
```

Edit the env variables in `docker-compose.yml` if needed - the defaults should be ok. There should be differences from the `.env` file for native use.

```bash
# from repo root
docker-compose up
```

# run client (unused, for dev convenience only)

```bash
cd ui/
yarn start
```

# development

## rebuild on code change

```bash
# from repo root
docker-compose up --build
# if dependencies have changed, or to get to a clean state:
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose up
```

## edit client on API change

```bash
./api_codegen.sh
export SERVER=$(pwd)
cd ui/
yarn codegen
```
now edit `src/adala.tsx` manually given the autogenerated changes in `src/_api/`

Commit message:

server test coverage (#141)
    server tests with real server running and real calls to openai, behind pytest flags --use-server and --use-openai so they don't get autorun in CI
    use a new CSVHandler with tempfiles to get results back to the caller in pytest so you can assert on expected output
    use openai_responses lib for mocking openai
    fix server settings
    update readme with settings and pytest instructions
    remove python 3.8 from supported versions due to use of asyncio.TaskGroup in server
    use VCR.py to mock openai in local (non-server) pytests to replace custom mock functions
    add test coverage for all skills

server/README.md, after:

# how to use

Once running, see `http://localhost:30001/docs` for API documentation.

# run natively

Run `poetry install` first if you have not already done so.

The default settings in `server.utils.Settings` should be ok for native use. Override any you want in a `server/.env` file or by setting them as environment variables in the shells where the app and workers are running.

## start kafka and redis

```bash
cd ..
docker-compose -f docker-compose.native.yml up
```

## start app

```bash
poetry run uvicorn app:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 30001
```

## start celery workers

```bash
cd tasks/
poetry run celery -A process_file worker --loglevel=info
```

# run in Docker


Edit the env variables in `docker-compose.yml` if needed - the defaults should be ok. There should be differences from the defaults in `server.utils.Settings` for native use.

```bash
# from repo root
docker-compose up
```

# run client (unused, for dev convenience only)

```bash
cd ui/
yarn start
```

## hosted instances

settings are configured here: https://github.com/HumanSignal/infra/blob/master/base/charts/humansignal/adala/values.yaml

The only significant difference from local as of now is that kafka topic autocreation is enabled as a backup.

# development


## testing

Server pytests in `test/test_server.py` rely on a running server (kafka, redis, and celery, but not app) behind the `--use-server` flag, and a real openai key available in the `OPENAI_API_KEY` env var behind the `--use-openai` flag. These tests are not run by default. To run them, use:
```bash
poetry run pytest --use-server --use-openai
```

## rebuild on code change

```bash
# from repo root
docker-compose up --build
# if dependencies have changed, or to get to a clean state:
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose up
```

## edit client on API change

```bash
./api_codegen.sh
export SERVER=$(pwd)
cd ui/
yarn codegen
```
now edit `src/adala.tsx` manually given the autogenerated changes in `src/_api/`
